---
title: Devguide Getting Information About Advantage Error Codes
slug: devguide_getting_information_about_advantage_error_codes
product: Advantage Database Server
component: Developer’s Guide
version: "12"
category: Reference
original_path_html: devguide_getting_information_about_advantage_error_codes.htm
source: Advantage CHM
tags:
  - devguide
  - developers-guide
checksum: 784773d9965d99421f69a9fa5b8d4849036a9fd6
---

# Devguide Getting Information About Advantage Error Codes

Getting Information About Advantage Error Codes

     Getting Information About Advantage Error Codes

Advantage Database Server v8.1: A Developers Guide

by Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson

  © 2007 Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson. All rights reserved.

| Getting Information About Advantage Error Codes  Advantage Database Server v8.1: A Developers Guide  by Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson    © 2007 Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson. All rights reserved. |  |  |  |  |

While building your client applications, you are likely to encounter an error generated by ADS now and then. These error codes indicate that a problem occurred while ADS or ALS was trying to perform a task that you instructed it to perform.

These errors almost always result in the display of a four-digit error code as well as a brief error message. For more information about a particular error, use the Advantage help, which you can access either directly or from the Advantage Data Architect.

The following steps describe how to access additional information about an error returned by ADS or ALS:

1.        From the Advantage Data Architect, select Help | Contents. Alternatively, to open the Advantage help file directly, select Start | Programs | Advantage Database Server | Documentation | Advantage.

| 2. | Select the Index tab of the Help dialog box. |

| 3. | Type the four-digit error code into the index field. |

| 4. | Once the error code is visible in the help index, double-click its entry to display a more detailed description of the error, like the one shown in Figure B-1. |

Figure B-1: Looking up Advantage error codes in the Advantage help

   
TIP: Some developers find it handy to place a shortcut to the Advantage help file on their desktop. In Windows, this help file is located in c:\Program Files\Extended Systems\Advantage 8.1\Help by default.  
 

Advantage help is also available online in HTML format. To view the online Advantage help, point your browser to the following URL (which due to the length of this URL appears on two lines in this book:

http://devzone.advantagedatabase.com/dz/webhelp/  
  Advantage8.1/Advantage.htm
