ExecSQLScript




Advantage Database Server 12  

TAdsQuery.ExecSQLScript

Advantage TDataSet Descendant

|  |
| --- |
|  |

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TAdsQuery.ExecSQLScript  Advantage TDataSet Descendant |  |  | Feedback on: Advantage Database Server 12 - TAdsQuery.ExecSQLScript Advantage TDataSet Descendant ade\_Execsqlscript Advantage Web Development > Advantage Delphi OData Client > Delphi OData Components > TODataSet / Dear Support Staff, |  |
| TAdsQuery.ExecSQLScript  Advantage TDataSet Descendant |  |  |  |  |

[TAdsQuery](ade_tadsquery.htm)

Important Note: This method is obsolete, and is only included for backwards compatibility. The standard ExecSQL method can now execute SQL scripts, and will execute the scripts at the server (which the ExecSQLScript method does not do). See [Scripts](master_sql_script_overview.htm) in the Advantage SQL Engine Supported Grammar section for more information. The new scripting functionality does not support the same comment characters that the old method did. If you require the old method, continue to use ExecSQLScript.

Executes the statements in the SQL property as an SQL script.

Syntax

procedure ExecSQLScript;

Description

Call ExecSQLScript to execute all SQL statements assigned to the SQL property as a batch job. This method currently supports single-line comments of the form

[ This is a comment ]

or

# This is a comment

Statements included in the script can not return cursor data (no SELECT statements), and should be separated using a semi-colon (;).

Use ExecSQLScript to execute scripts you have written, or scripts generated by the "Tables-To-Code" utility in the Advantage Data Architect.

Note This method does not currently support parameters in SQL statements.

Example

[ Table Type of DEMO10.ADT is ADT]

Create Table DEMO10 ( DEPTNUM Short, LASTNAME Char( 12 ), FIRSTNAME Char( 12 ), DOH Date, MARRIED Logical );

 

# fill the table with some data

INSERT INTO DEMO10 VALUES( 3, 'Coles', 'Fawn', '1987-01-14', False, 'R and D', 'Los Angeles' );

INSERT INTO DEMO10 VALUES( 12, 'asdf', 'Becky', '1929-03-21', False, 'Production', 'New York' );

INSERT INTO DEMO10 VALUES( 5, 'Frasier', 'asdf', '1989-10-22', True, 'R and D', 'Chicago' );