Restoring from a Backup




Advantage Database Server 12  

 

     Restoring from a Backup

Advantage Database Server v8.1: A Developers Guide

by Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson

  © 2007 Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson. All rights reserved.

|  |
| --- |
|  |

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Restoring from a Backup  Advantage Database Server v8.1: A Developers Guide  by Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson    © 2007 Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson. All rights reserved. |  |  | Feedback on: Advantage Database Server 12 -       Restoring from a Backup Advantage Database Server v8.1: A Developers Guide by Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson     2007 Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson. All rights reserved. devguide\_Restoring\_from\_a\_Backup Advantage Developer's Guide > Part I - Advantage and Advantage Data Architect > Chapter 9 - Backups > Restoring from a Backup / Dear Support Staff, |  |
| Restoring from a Backup  Advantage Database Server v8.1: A Developers Guide  by Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson    © 2007 Cary Jensen and Loy Anderson. All rights reserved. |  |  |  |  |

The files generated by a backup should not be used directly by you or your applications. Specifically, if you inspect the backup directory after following the preceding steps to create a backup, what you will find looks something like a database. As you can see from Figure 9-6, it appears that there are tables, memo files, and data dictionary files in the backup directory. However, these files are intended solely for the purpose of restoring your data using one of the restore options. (Attempting to read these files directly can produce unpredictable results.)

   
NOTE: As noted earlier, Indexes are not backed up when you perform a backup on a data dictionary.  
 

Figure 9-6: The files created during the backup process

You can restore from a backup using the Advantage Data Architect, one of two restore system stored procedures, or AdsBackup.exe. Each of these restore mechanisms is discussed in the following sections.

Unlike in the section on creating a backup appearing earlier in this chapter, you will not actually restore the database using the Advantage Data Architect. For both of the following sections on restoring using the Advantage Data Architect and Advantage's restore system stored procedures, restoration will be described in detail, but will not be demonstrated. Instead, the steps to restore the previously backed up database using the AdsBackup.exe command-line utility will be given. This restored database will be placed in a new directory, and can be used to demonstrate replication as described in Chapter 10.